#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Thesis Proposal
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order for a spacecraft to successfully land on the surface of a planet
 or other body in the correct location, accurate position, attitude, and
 velocity data is required.
 There are many useful instruments which contribute to this data.
 Doppler lidar in particular is interesting because it can contribute to
 each type of aforementioned data.
 If used correctly the measurements of a multi-beam Doppler lidar system
 can be combined to get an accurate velocity vector, attitude, and if enough
 beams or beam steering angles are available Doppler lidar can even be used
 to acquire necessary navigational information.
 A significant challenge in the design of any space craft is budgeting not
 only cost but also power, space, and weight.
 In order to maintain these budgets, it is prudent to design or purchase
 a Doppler lidar system which reaches the performance requirements for the
 mission with minimum cost, power consumption, size, and weight.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An individual or group tasked with purchasing or especially designing a
 Doppler lidar system would need to determine what kind of parameters in
 the system would meet the requirements of the mission.
 Evaluating the performance of a Doppler lidar system requires that either
 the system be built and tested experimentally or the system be simulated.
 The problems with building a system and testing experimentally are obvious,
 if the system does not meet requirements large amounts of time and money
 have been wasted and if the system does meet the requirements it is unknown
 whether a less expensive, smaller, or lower power system may have also
 met the requirements.
 Robust parametrized simulation tools for Doppler lidar, however, are not
 widely available and it would be time consuming and costly to create simulation
 tools to design one Doppler lidar system.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
LadarSIM is a robust parametrized simulation tool for time of flight lidar
 developed at Utah State University's 
\lang american
Center
\lang english
 for Advanced Imaging Ladar over the past decade and a half.
 LadarSIM has the flexibility to simulate a wide range of time of flight
 lidar systems with varying beam and scanner patterns and parametrized transmitt
ers and receivers.
 These simulated systems can be evaluated using scenarios consisting of
 user specified terrain, targets, and flight paths.
 Taking full advantage of the significant work that has gone into creating
 the LadarSIM software, a simulation of a parametrized Doppler transmitter
 and receiver will be added to LadarSIM to evaluate the performance of Doppler
 lidar systems.
 Utilizing this Doppler lidar simulation capability a trade-off study will
 be performed to determine the effects of varying laser transmission power,
 beam divergence, aperture diameter, and FFT size on a Doppler lidar system.
 These parameters have been selected because of the significant effect they
 can have on the performance, cost, size, and power consumption of a Doppler
 lidar system.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is anticipated that the results of this research will present a clear
 demonstration of the effects of these parameters on a Doppler lidar system.
 For each of these parameters it is expected that performance will increase
 as the value of the parameter is improved but diminishing returns will
 be evident.
 Using this data, a designer would have strong guidance in designing the
 parameters of a Doppler lidar system to meet mission requirements while
 expending the minimum necessary resources.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Lit Review
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Amzarjerdian
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Adany et al.
 describe the operation and performance of a simplified homodyne detection
 scheme.
 In this scheme a waveform generator drives an electro-optic modulator which
 modulates an optical signal from a laser.
 The resulting signal is split into two parts.
 One part is amplified and sent to the telescope and the other is used as
 the local oscillator.
 The returning signal from the telescope is optically mixed with the local
 oscillator signal and detected by a balanced photodetector.
 An FFT is then performed on the detected signal to determine detected range
 and speed.
 [number for adany].
 This scheme is on NASA's Morphious test vehicle in order to demonstrate
 it's utility as a potential instrument for planetary landing missions.
 (amzajerdian12).
 Because of its use by NASA the simplified homodyne detection scheme has
 been selected as the basis of the doppler lidar simulation in LadarSIM.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Adany et al.
 tested their lidar at ground level at ranges of 50 m and 370 m.
 The NASA instrument has been tested mounted on a helicopter and the morpheus
 test vehicle to demonstrate its performance.
 In the altitude tests the altidue varried from approximately 50 m to 1700
 m (pierrottet papers).
 The Morpheus test vehicle was launched to a 250 m altitude then descended
 along a 30 degree path to a simulated landing field.
 These tests provide useful data to compare with simulated results.
 The results of Adany et al.
 are particularly interesting because they include a return spectrum from
 the 370m experiment.
 The experiments of Adany et al.
 fall short in that the targets all had relatively good reflectivity and
 an approximately 90 degree angle incidence therefore there is little to
 be learn about spectra resulting from non-ideal conditions.
 The expiriments performed by NASA accurately mimic real world circumstances
 but no data on the resulting spectra is provided and no information on
 the performance of the system at long ranges.The simulation proposed will
 therefore provide insight on data which is not readily available, performance
 information and spectra from non-ideal scenarios.
 This data will be useful in making decisions about doppler lidar system
 characteristics as well as improving detection algorithms for doppler lidar.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Research and Design Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of this research project is to ascertain and demonstrate the effects
 of particular parameters on the performance of a Doppler lidar system.
 The parameters to be studied are laser transmission power, beam divergence,
 aperture diameter, and FFT size.
 These parameters have been selected because of their potential effect on
 the overall performance, cost, power consumption, weight, and computational
 power of a system.
 The results of this research will simplify the task of designing or selecting
 a Doppler lidar system by providing information about where to best allocate
 resources to achieve performance requirements.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to simulate the effects of these characteristics on a Doppler lidar
 system, a detailed parametrized simulation of Doppler lidar will be added
 to the LadarSIM lidar simulation software.
 The updated LadarSIM software will then be used to simulate various Doppler
 lidar systems with varying transmission power, beam divergence, aperture
 diameter, and FFT size then the performance of these instruments will be
 evaluated in a variety of simulated scenarios by calculating and recording
 the probabilities of detection and false alarm.
 LadarSIM is a robust and realistic simulator which accurately simulates
 the real world behavior of a lidar system.
 After simulating the true measurements of range and velocity of a scenario,
 LadarSIM simulates the transmission and return of a beam by modeling the
 interactions of the beam with the atmosphere, target, receiver optics,
 and electronics to obtain a simulated returned signal.
 Using this returned signal and models of the noise in the system the probabilit
y of detection and false alarm are calculated.
 For each simulated beam, the probability of detection and false alarm will
 be recorded with information about the range and angle of incident to the
 target.
 This data will be used to compare the performance of Doppler lidar systems
 with different parameters.
 The information about the range and angle of incident will be used to compare
 performance under different conditions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to make the effect of each parameter as evident as possible, each
 parameter will be varied and measured while holding the other parameters
 constant.
 This will also cut down on the number of simulations because it will not
 be necessary to simulate every possible combination of parameters to determine
 the effects of each parameter.
 However, the parameters of aperture diameter and laser transmission power
 are directly related.
 An increase in one will proportionally offset a decrease in the other.
 This relationship will be studied and the resulting trade-offs presented.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Preliminary Suppositions and Implications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Conclusion
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
